In the previous video we talked about operators.
Let's continue that discussion further,
and we'll also get into operator precedence.
So, where we finished off,
was talking about and using the AND operator on line 59,
and how it required both the left condition,
the left operand condition, and the right condition,
the right operand.
They both had to be true,
in order for the code that we've defined,
in this case in a code block,
with the statement line 60 to be executed.
So, without the left and the right hand side conditions
being true, that code isn't executed.
We can confirm that again by running a code,
and we can see the output greater than second topScore
and less than 100 isn't showing, and that's because we
defined second topScore to have the value of 81.
That means that the left condition,
topScore greater than second topScore is false,
and consequently we're not seeing the output.
All right, so a useful thing to do with these
expressions or conditions,
is to use extra parentheses to clarify your meaning.
Now, this can also have an effect on your code,
due to operator precedence,
but we're seeing that in a future video,
what I mean by that and what effect it has.
For now though, we're talking about enhancing meaning.
So, what we can do is come up here to the left condition.
And put parentheses around that.
We'll do the same for the right operand
or the right condition.
Like so.
This makes the code easier to read because it's now clearer
what the condition or expression is for the left and right
hand operands of the AND operator.
Now, at this stage, we've run the code again.
Nothing's changed.
We've got exactly the same results.
But just in general,
is making it bit easy to read and understand,
and the idea is to help remove confusion
and to clarify your meaning, and as a result of that,
that makes it quicker to understand when you look at the
code at a glance to know what's going on.
And this may be relevant in the future, if someone else is
reviewing your code or you're looking at your code in the
future where you've forgotten the reasoning for putting that
code as it was in the first place.
I think these parentheses just kind of make it a little bit
easier to understand.
All right, so that's the AND operator.
Let's now move on and talk about the OR operator.
So, the OR operator works in a similar way to the
AND operator, but the difference is that it only requires
one of the conditions to the left and right hand side
to be true.
Remembering that AND, the AND operator requires both the
left and right upper operands conditions to be true,
the OR operator requires only one of the left and right
operand conditions to be true.
So, let's start some code here.
So, I'm going to come down here.
I'm going to top, if.
I'm gonna add two parentheses because we're gonna do a
similar thing by wrapping our conditions in parentheses.
I'm going to type if topScore greater than 90,
and I put one right parentheses there,
and then I'm going to put the OR operator,
which is these two pipe characters.
Now, just a note here,
that you need to use two pipe characters, not one.
If you use only a single pipe character like so,
well that's actually a bitwise OR operator,
and it will return different results.
So, here we want to use a logical OR, which needs two.
If you recall now,
you can see on line 59 when we're using the AND operator,
that we also used two ampersands there.
All right, so just some clarification on the
logical AND and logical OR.
The AND operator comes in two flavours in Java,
as does the OR operator.
The two ampersands, that's the logical AND operator,
and that operates on boolean operands,
in other words checking if the given condition is true
or false.
Now, you will almost always want to do this.
The single ampersand is a bitwise operator working at the
bit level.
This is the AND bitwise operator.
And that's an advanced concept that we won't get into here.
And likewise, the two pipes is the logical OR,
which again operates on boolean operands,
again checking if the given condition is true or false.
And again, you almost be wanting to do this,
the single OR, the single pipe, that's a bitwise OR
operator working at the bit level, and again,
not something you generally would be needing to do.
All right, so let's swing back to the code.
All right, so back to the code then.
I can change this and I can add another parentheses.
We'll put second topScore less than equal to 90.
We've gotta have two closing parentheses now.
And now, we're going to add a code block.
And then in the code, we're going to put the print line
message either or both of the conditions are true.
All right, so looking at the code,
we scroll up and look at line 53.
We've defined topScore to be 80,
so looking down at our code on line 63,
if topScore greater than 90, that's gonna return false
because, obviously, topScore is 80 and not 90.
Because of the test that we're testing this,
topScore greater than 90.
Now, the second score, you can see that on line 58.
We defined that had the value 81.
And the test, if it's less than or equal to 90,
which is the right hand operand condition,
well, that's going to return true,
which means we've got one false operand.
The left upper operand condition's false,
but the right operands condition is true.
So therefore, we should still get the output
because one of them is true.
You can see either or both of the conditions are true.
Now, just to confirm that.
If we change second topScore.
Let's change that to 95 to see what happens.
Some arbitrary number that's greater than 90.
Run it again.
This time, we're not seeing either or both of the conditions
are true output, and that's because now both these values,
both the left and right hand conditions for the OR operator
are false, and we're not seeing the output.
All right, so let's finish the video here.
In the next video, I've got a mini challenge for you.
I want to talk about the differences between the assignment
in equal to operators, and how to ensure you don't get
into difficulty with those.
So, I will see you in the next video.